---
slug: v0.43.0
date: 2025-08-13
links:
  - v0.43.0 GitHub release: https://github.com/galasa-dev/galasa/releases/tag/v0.43.0
---

# 0.43.0 - Release Highlights

## Changes affecting the Galasa Service

- Requests made to the Galasa API Server have been made more efficient to avoid errors when attempting to send a message through the gRPC protocol that exceeds the maximum size. See [#2312](https://github.com/galasa-dev/projectmanagement/issues/2312).

- The Galasa ecosystem Helm chart creates the `_users` database in CouchDB if it doesn't already exist. This is a required database for CouchDB that should be created as default to prevent errors when the Result Archive Store is started.

- The Engine Controller waits for the ETCD and RAS Pods to be ready in the Galasa service before completing any actions that involve the CPS/DSS/RAS.

## Changes affecting tests running locally or on the Galasa Service

- Updates have been made to the `@TestResultProvider` annotation. The `@TestResultProvider` can now provide a list of `ITestMethodResult`s to the test which each include the method name, if the method passed, if the method failed, and the exception thrown to cause the failure, if available. This can be used by tests themselves to determine actions to take based on each method's result. See issue [#2343](https://github.com/galasa-dev/projectmanagement/issues/2343).

- The start and end line number in the run log pertaining to a particular method are now available in the test structure. This can be used to easily navigate the run log and identify which sections are about which methods. See issue [#2214](https://github.com/galasa-dev/projectmanagement/issues/2214).

- z/OS telnet 3270 server certificates can now be verified if the CPS property `zos.image.[TAG].telnet.tls.verify` is set to true. See issue [#2296](https://github.com/galasa-dev/projectmanagement/issues/2296).

## Other changes

- Galasa users without internet access can continue to read the Galasa documentation offline. The Galasa zipped distribution, `isolated.zip`, now contains a `docs.tar` file that when untarred becomes a Docker image. This Docker image can then be run to access the Galasa documentation site from a local web server.

- log4j-core dependency upgraded from 2.24.1 to 2.25.1 to remediate a Critical vulnerability.

- The Galasa documentation site now complies with EEC regulations, providing a privacy statement and standard cookie consent banner.

## Galasa Web UI changes

- More experimental features have been added to the Galasa web user interface which are hidden behind a feature flag. If you would like to test out these experimental features, these can be accessed by going to the "My Settings" page and ticking the boxes in the "Experimental Features" section.