---
slug: v0.48.1
date: 2026-05-20
links:
  - v0.48.1 GitHub release: https://github.com/galasa-dev/galasa/releases/tag/v0.48.1
---

# 0.48.1 - Release Highlights

## Changes affecting tests running locally or on the Galasa Service

- Username/password credentials used to authenticate with Maven repositories can be supplied to download test artifacts and OBRs from password-protected Maven repositories.
  - **For local test runs:** Credentials can be supplied in the `${GALASA_HOME}/bootstrap.properties` file using the `maven.repository.username` and `maven.repository.password` properties. Alternatively, credentials can be supplied as environment variables by setting `GALASA_MAVEN_USERNAME` and `GALASA_MAVEN_PASSWORD`. Values in environment variables take precedence over values in the `bootstrap.properties` file.
  - **For test runs on the Galasa Service:** Test streams can be configured with an optional `secretName` field that contains the name of an existing Galasa secret containing the credentials to use when authenticating with Maven repositories. The secret name can be set using the `galasactl streams set --name <stream-name> --maven-secret-name <secret-name>` command or via YAML files with the `galasactl resources apply` command (see [Test Streams as GalasaStream resources](../../docs/manage-ecosystem/test-streams.md) for more details).

## Changes affecting tests running locally

- Windows Credential Manager support added to the OS Credentials Store extension. Galasa can now securely read test credentials from Windows Credential Manager, providing a more secure alternative to storing credentials in plain text configuration files. See [Windows Credential Manager Store](../../docs/configuring-local-credentials/windows-credential-manager-store.md) for more details.

