---
slug: v0.46.0
date: 2025-12-05
links:
  - v0.46.0 GitHub release: https://github.com/galasa-dev/galasa/releases/tag/v0.46.0
---

# 0.46.0 - Release Highlights

## Changes affecting tests running locally or on the Galasa Service

- The SSH client library that Galasa uses has been updated to support stronger key algorithms, including `rsa-sha2-256` and `rsa-sha2-512`. See [#2461](https://github.com/galasa-dev/projectmanagement/issues/2461).
  - **Galasa managers that use the IP network manager, like the zOS TSO Command SSH and zOS UNIX Command SSH managers, no longer support the RSA/SHA1 signature algorithm when connecting to a server via SSH. If you are using RSA/SHA1, you should upgrade your servers to use a stronger algorithm.**
- The z/OS Program Manager now validates that program names specified in the `@ZosProgram` annotation are **uppercase** and **no longer than 8 characters**. If a name is not uppercase or exceeds eight characters, the z/OS Program Manager rejects it and raises a ZosProgramManagerException with an actionable error message.

## Changes affecting the Galasa Service

- Users now have a `priority` modifier associated with them that can affect the order in which tests submitted by users are scheduled. Tests submitted by users with higher priority modifiers can be scheduled before tests that were submitted by users with lower priority modifiers. See [#2176](https://github.com/galasa-dev/projectmanagement/issues/2176).
  - User priorities can be updated using the new `--priority` flag in the `galasactl users set` command. [See the command reference](../../docs/reference/cli-syntax/galasactl_users_set.md).

- Administrators can now set a user to associate with a batch of test runs when they are submitted, which may or may not be the same as the requestor. This allows admins who run batches of tests in an automation tool or workflow where the requestor is a functional ID/bot account, to also associate a user with the test runs, so these runs can be queried by the user later. 
  - The user can be set when submitting tests with the Runs API. [See the REST API reference](../../docs/reference/rest-api/index.html).

- Added `galasactl tags` commands to the Galasa CLI tool that can be used to create, read, update, and delete test tags as resources on the Galasa service. [See the command reference for more details](../../docs/reference/cli-syntax/galasactl_tags.md)
  - Tags can be assigned a `priority` modifier that can affect the order in which tests submitted to a Galasa service are scheduled. Test submitted with tags that have higher priority modifiers will be scheduled before tests that have no tags or tags with lower priority modifiers. 
  - Tags can also be assigned a `description` which can be used to provide more information about the tag.
